McDERMOTT
Who is it then?

PRICE
That's Paul Owen.

BATEMAN
That's not Paul Owen. Paul Owen's on the other side of the
room. Over there.

He points to another handsome young man with slicked-back
hair and horn-rimmed glasses.

McDERMOTT
Who is he with?

PRICE
(Distracted by the waitress's
cleavage as she bends over to
uncork a bottle of wine – the
waitress glares at him)
Some weasel from Kicker Peabody.

Van Patten returns.

VAN PATTEN
They don't have a good bathroom to do coke in.

McDERMOTT
Are you sure that's Paul Owen over there?

PRICE
Yes. McDufus, I am.

McDERMOTT
He's handling the Fisher account.

PRICE
Lucky bastard.

McDERMOTT
Lucky Jew bastard.

BATEMAN
Oh Jesus, McDermott, what does that have to do with
anything?

McDERMOTT
Listen. I've seen the bastard sitting in his office on the
phone with CEOs, spinning a fucking menorah. The
bastard brought a Hanukkah bush into the office last December.

BATEMAN
You spin a dreidel, McDermott, not a menorah.
You spin a dreidel.

McDERMOTT
Oh my God. Bateman, do you want me to fry you up
some fucking potato pancakes? Some latkes?

BATEMAN
No. Just cool it with the anti-Semitic remarks.

McDERMOTT
Oh I forgot. Bateman's dating someone from the
ACLU.

Price leans over and pats Bateman on the back.

PRICE
The voice of reason. The boy next door. And speaking
of reasonable...

He shows McDermott the bill for the meal.

McDERMOTT
Only $470.

VAN PATTEN
(Without irony)
Not bad.

The others murmur agreement. Four platinum Amex cards slap
down on the table.

INT. LIMOUSINE - NIGHT
Bateman is pouring vintage champagne into flutes. Price is
lighting up a cigar.

McDERMOTT
Last week I picked up this Vassar chick-

VAN PATTEN
Oh God, I was there. I don't need to hear this
story again.

McDERMOTT
But I never told you what happened afterwards. So
okay, I pick up this Vassar chick at Tunnel-hot number, big
tits, great legs, this chick was a little hardbody-and so I
buy her a couple of champagne kirs and she's in the city on
spring break and she's practically blowing me in the
Chandelier Room and so I take her back to my place-

BATEMAN
Whoa, wait. May I ask where Pamela is during all
this?

McDERMOTT
Oh fuck you. I want a blowjob, Bate-man. I want a chick
who's gonna let me-

VAN PATTEN
(Putting his hands over his ears)
I don't want to hear this. He's going to say something
disgusting.

McDERMOTT
You prude. Listen, we're not gonna invest in a co-op
together or jet down to Saint Bart's. I just want some
chick whose face I can sit on for thirty, forty minutes.

Price throws a cigar at McDermott, who catches it.

McDERMOTT
Anyway, so we're back at my place and listen to
this. She's had enough champagne by now to get a fucking
rhino tipsy, and get this-

VAN PATTEN
She let you fuck her without a condom?

McDERMOTT
This is a Vassar girl. She's not from Queens. She
would only-are you ready?
(Dramatic pause)
She would only give me a handjob, and get this...she kept
her glove on.

The men sit in shocked, horrified silence.

ALL IN UNISON Never date a Vassar girl.

EXT. TUNNEL NIGHTCLUB - NIGHT

The limo pulls up to the sidewalk outside the Tunnel.
McDermott holds the door open for a passing HOMELESS MAN,
who looks confused.

McDERMOTT
I suppose he doesn't want the car. Price, ask
him if he takes American Express.

PRICE
(Offering card)
You take Amex, dude?

The man stumbles away. The club DOORMAN, seeing the limousine,
unhooks the
velvet rope and welcomes them inside.

INT. LADIES ROOM, TUNNEL - NIGHT

Brilliant white light, a bemused elderly female attendant in a
black-and-white maid's uniform trying to give out paper towels.
MUSIC thuds through an open doorway. Trashed-looking girls
stare into mirrors repairing their eye make-up or sit on the
counter chatting to friends. There are almost as many men as
women in the room. Couples stand in line, twitching as they
wait to do coke. As soon as one bathroom door opens, a couple
lurches out rubbing their noses while another couple rushes
past them and slams the door.

PRICE
There's this theory out now that if you can catch the
AIDS virus through having sex with someone who is infected,
then you can also catch anything-Alzheimer's, muscular
dystrophy, hemophilia, leukemia, diabetes, dyslexia, for
Christ's sake-you can get dyslexia from pussy-

BATEMAN
I'm not sure, guy, but I don't think dyslexia is a
virus.

PRICE
Oh, who knows? They don't know that. Prove it.

Price and Bateman finally get a stall and rush in. Price is
sweating.

PRICE
I'm shaking. You open it.

Bateman opens a tiny packet of coke.

PRICE
Jeez. That's not a helluva lot, is it?

BATEMAN
Maybe it's just the light.

PRICE
Is he fucking selling it by the milligram? (He dips
the corner of his Amex card in the packet and takes a snort)
Oh my God...

BATEMAN
What?

PRICE
It's a fucking milligram of Sweet'n Low!

Bateman dips his Amex in the envelope and snorts.

BATEMAN
It's definitely weak but I have a feeling if we do
enough of it we'll be okay.

PRICE
I want to get high off this; Bateman, not sprinkle it
on my fucking All-Bran.

The GUY IN STALL next door yells at them in an effeminate
voice:

GUY IN STALL
Could you keep it down, I'm trying to do drugs!

Price pounds his fist against the stall.

PRICE
(screaming)
SHUT UP!

BATEMAN
Calm down. Let's do it anyway

PRICE
I guess you're right...
(Raising his voice)
THAT IS, IF THE FAGGOT IN THE NEXT STALL THINKS IT'S OKAY!

GUY IN STALL
Fuck you!

PRICE
(Trying to climb up against the aluminum divider)
No, FUCK YOU!!
(He collapses, panting against the stall door)
Sorry, dude. Steroids...Okay, let's do it.

BATEMAN
That's the spirit.

They both dig their platinum Amex cards into the envelope
of white powder, shoveling it up their noses, then sticking
their fingers in to catch the residue and rubbing it into
their gums.

INT. NIGHTCLUB - NIGHT

Bateman saunters toward the bar as "Pump Up the Volume"
plays in the background.

BATEMAN (to BARGIRL) Two Stoli on the rocks.

He hands her two drink tickets.

BARGIRL
It's after eleven. Those aren't good anymore. It's
a cash bar. That'll be twenty-five dollars.

Bateman pulls out an expensive-looking wallet and hands her
a $50.

She turns her back and searches the cash register for
change.

BATEMAN You are a fucking ugly bitch I want to stab to
death and then play around with your blood.

The music muffles his voice. She turns around. He is
smiling at her. She gives him his change impassively.

INT. BATEMAN'S APARTMENT- MORNING

Tableaux of Bateman's apartment in the early morning light.
A huge white living room with floor-to-ceiling windows
looking out over Manhattan, decorated in expensive, minimalist
high style: bleached oak floors, a huge white sofa, a large
Baselitz painting (hung upside down) and much expensive
electronic equipment. The room is impeccably neat, and oddly
impersonal - as if it had sprung straight from the pages of
a design magazine.

BATEMAN (V.0.)
My name is Patrick Bateman. I am
twenty-six years old. I live in the American Garden
Buildings on West Eighty-First Street, on the eleventh
floor Tom Cruise lives in the penthouse.

Bateman walks into his bathroom, urinates while trying to
see his reflection in a poster for Les Miserables above his
toilet.

BATEMAN
(V.0.) I believe in taking care of myself, in a
balanced diet, in a rigorous exercise routine. In the
morning, if my face is a little puffy, I'll put on an ice
pack while doing my stomach crunches. I can do a thousand
now.

Bateman ties a plastic ice pack around his face.

Bateman does his morning stretching exercises in the living
room wearing the ice pack.

CUT TO:

A mirror-lined bathroom. Bateman is luxuriating in the
shower steam, scrubbing his body, admiring his muscles.

BATEMAN (V.O.)
After I remove the icepack, I use a deep
pore-cleanser lotion. In the shower, I use a
water-activated gel cleanser, then a honey-almond body
scrub, and on the face an exfoliating gel scrub.

Bateman stands in front of a massive marble sink applying a
gel facial masque.

BATEMAN (V.O.)
Then I apply an herb mint facial masque which
I leave on for ten minutes while I prepare the rest of my
routine.

Bateman opens the door of a mirrored cabinet, which is
stocked with immaculate rows of skin care products. He
begins selecting bottles jars and brushes, laying them in
readiness on the marble counter.

BATEMAN (V.O.)
I always use an after-shave lotion with little
or no alcohol because alcohol dries your face out and makes
you look older. Then moisturizer, then an anti-aging eye
balm, followed by a final moisturizing "protective" lotion...

Bateman stares into the mirror. The masque has dried,
giving his face a strange distorted look as if it has been
wrapped in plastic. He begins slowly peeling the gel masque
off his face.

BATEMAN (V.O.)
There is an idea of a Patrick Bateman, some
kind of abstraction, hut there is no real me, only an
entity, something illusory, and though I can hide my cold
gaze and you can shake my hand and feel flesh gripping you
and maybe you can even sense our lifestyles are probably
comparable: I simply am not there.

INT. BATEMAN BEDROOM - MORNING

Another huge white room, equally minimal: a futon, rumpled
white sheets, a bedside lamp with a halogen bulb, and a large
expensive painting (Eric Fischl or David Salle) chosen by
Bateman's interior decorator.

Dressed in silk boxer shorts, Bateman stands in front of a
huge walk-in closet, filled with rows of expensive shirts,
shoes and designer suits, organized according to color and
tone.

BATEMAN (V.O.)
It is hard for me to make sense on any given
level. My self is fabricated, an aberration. My personality
is sketchy and unformed, my heartlessness goes deep and is
persistent.

Fully dressed in Armani, Bateman stands in front of a
full-length mirror in the middle of his vast bedroom,
adjusting his cuff-links.

BATEMAN (V.0.)
My conscience, my pity, my hopes disappeared
a long time ago, if they ever did exist.

He gives a last look at the mirror and likes what he sees.
He gives his reflection a smile.